Introduction - Singly Linked List : 

1. Each node in a singly-linked list contains not only the value but also a reference field to 
   link to the next node. By this way, the singly-linked list organizes all the nodes in a sequence.

2. In most cases, we will use the head node (the first node) to represent the whole list.

public class SinglyListNode {
    int val;
    SinglyListNode next;
    SinglyListNode(int x) { val = x; }
}


Operations : 

Access : Unlike the array, we are not able to access a random element in a singly-linked list in constant time. 
If we want to get the ith element, we have to traverse from the head node one by one.
It takes us O(N) time on average to visit an element by index, where N is the length of the linked list.

You might wonder why the linked list is useful though it has such a bad performance 
(compared to the array) in accessing data by index. 
The insert and delete operations will realize the benefit of the linked list.
LinkedList has O(n) time complexity for arbitrary indices of add/remove, 
but O(1) for operations at end/beginning of the List.

Add : Unlike an array, we don’t need to move all elements past the inserted element. 
Therefore, you can insert a new node into a linked list in O(1) time complexity (amortised)

Delete : If we want to delete an existing node cur from the singly linked list, we can do it in two steps:
a. Find cur's previous node prev and its next node next
b. Link prev to cur's next node next.

In our first step, we need to find out prev and next. 
It is easy to find out next using the reference field of cur. 
However, we have to traverse the linked list from the head node to find out prev 
which will take O(N) time on average, where N is the length of the linked list. 
So the time complexity of deleting a node will be O(N).

The space complexity is O(1) because we only need constant space to store our pointers.


NOTE:
Amortized analysis is a method of analyzing the costs associated with a data structure that 
averages the worst operations out over time.
https://brilliant.org/wiki/amortized-analysis/

